Translated by: Rik Delaet Checked by: Christel Foncke
So this is a hotel room, just like the one I stay in.
Sometimes I get bored.
Such a room does not offer much entertainment.
But for a hacker, she's a bit interesting,
because that television is different from the home,
it is a node on a network.
That means I can mess with it.
I plug a small device like this into my computer.
It is an infrared transmitter-receiver with which I can send the codes
that the TV remote can transmit and some other codes.
Well, then I can watch movies for free.
(Laughter)
That doesn't really matter to me, but I can also play video games.
Hey, but what is this?
Not only can I do this for my TV in my hotel room,
I can also control the TV in your hotel room.
(Laughter)
So I can see what you are looking at,
you know, that data on your TV
when you surf the web on your hotel TV.
I can see you doing it.
Sometimes it is very interesting.
Transfer of funds.
Really large payment traffic.
You never know what people want to do
while surfing the web from their hotel room.
(Laughter)
The point is I can tell if you're watching Disney or porn tonight.
Is there anyone else in the Affinia hotel here?
(Laughter)
This is a project I worked on when we were trying to figure it out
what about the security of wireless networks.
It is called the 'Hackerbot'.
This is a robot we built to find WiFi users.
He drives over to them and shows them their passwords on the screen.
(Laughter)
We just wanted to build a robot,
but we didn't know what to let him do, so -
we made it a gun version.
This is called the 'Sniper Yagi'.
He sniffs long-distance passwords.
I can see your wireless network from a mile away.
This is a project I did with Ben Laurie
worked to demonstrate passive surveillance.
This is a map of the conference
Computers, Freedom and Privacy.
This conference took place in a hotel, and we placed
a computer in every room
which recorded all bluetooth traffic.
We were able to hear telephone and laptop traffic from everyone
record and correlate,
and then I could make such a card for everyone at the conference.
This is Kim Cameron, the Chief Privacy Architect at Microsoft.
(Laughter)
Without knowing it,
I could see where he went everywhere
and correlate with who he was,
(dial phone)
when he was bored,
hangs out in the lobby.
Does anyone here use a cell phone?
(Laughter)
(Telephone rings)
My phone is ringing -
(ringing)
rings -
Voice mail: You have 100 messages.
Palbos Holman: Oh, oh!
VM: First unheard message -
PH: Where should I press -
VM: Message skipped. First skipped message.
PH: Oh, oh!
VM: Main menu: to listen - You pressed the wrong key -
You have two skipped messages. Three saved messages.
Farewell.
PH: Oh, oh! We are in Brad's voicemail.
(Laughter)
I wanted to record a new message for him,
but I seem to have pressed an invalid key,
so we continue.
I'll explain later because we don't have much time.
Does anyone here use MySpace?
MySpace users? Oh!
Was popular once. It's kind of like Facebook.
Our friend Samy tried to meet sweethearts on MySpace
- I think it used to be before.
He created a page on MySpace for himself.
It made a list of all your friends, and you knew that
if someone was cool because they had a lot of friends on MySpace.
Samy had no friends.
He wrote a little Javascript code that he put in his page,
so that when you looked at his page
you were simply added 'automagically' as a friend.
And it skipped the entire recognition protocol
that asked, "Is Samy really your friend?"
But then it copied that code to your page,
so that when someone looked at your page
who automatically also became Samy's friend.
(Laughter)
And it customized your page by saying, "Samy is your hero."
In less than 24 hours, Samy had over a million friends on MySpace.
(Laughter)
His three years of probation have just ended.
Even better, Christopher Abad, this guy, another hacker, did even better.
He also tried to get sweethearts through MySpace,
but with uneven results.
Sometimes these dates were disappointing,
so Abad wrote a little piece of code
to connect MySpace to SpamAssassin, an open source spam filter.
It works just like the spam filter in your email.
You train it by giving up some spam,
also some legitimate email,
and it tries to deal with artificial intelligence
work out the difference. Yes?
Well, he dropped girls' profiles
who he met and liked,
treat it as legitimate email.
Profiles of girls he didn't like,
were considered spam.
And he applied that to every profile on MySpace.
(Laughter)
Girls you might like to meet up with come out.
Three things can be said about Abad.
Why do we need Match.com when we can have spam dating?
You know this is innovation.
He had a problem and found a solution.
Is someone using
- bleep -
this kind of key to open his car remotely?
They're popular in, well, maybe not Chicago, okay.
Today, young people drive past a Walmart parking lot
and click open, open, open, bloep.
In the end you will find another Jetta or whatever just like yours,
maybe a different color, which has the same key code.
And they run away with it.
Your insurance company will shift the debt on you,
because there is no evidence of burglary.
For a manufacturer, we figured out how to manipulate that key
so that he got every car from that manufacturer open.
(Laughter)
I could tell you more about this, but I hardly have time,
because your car or phone are now also PCs,
and maybe your toaster soon.
I'm not joking.
When that happens,
you have to deal with all the security problems of PCs.
And there are many.
Keep that in mind, we'll get to it.
Does anyone have such a lock on their front door?
Okay.
Me too.
This is a Schlage lock.
It sits on half of the front doors in America.
I brought one.
This is my Schlage lock.
This is a key that fits in the lock but is filed incorrectly, so it does not turn.
Has anyone here ever tried to open locks with something like this?
Okay, some nasty slot toddlers.
Well it is for children with OCD.
You have to put them in and pick them out.
It takes hours to be handy enough to manipulate the pins.
There is an easier way for ADD children at home.
I put my little magic key here,
With a little pressure I turn it over,
(to knock)
tap it a few times with this special mallet
and just opened the lock. We're in there.
It's easy.
In fact, I don't really know much more about it than you do.
It's really, really easy.
I made a key ring with the same type of key
for every lock in America.
And for those interested I bought a key machine
to make such a key for all of you.
(Laughter)
(Applause)
As a gift for you. Come later and I'll show you
how to force a lock and give you such a key
to test it at your door at home.
Does anyone use these USB drives?
Yes, print my Word document, yes!
They are very popular.
Mine works a bit like yours.
You can print my Word document for me.
But while you do that,
makes it invisible and magically in the background
just a handy backup of your 'My Documents' folder,
your browser history, cookies, your registration and password database
and all the things you could ever need
if you have a problem.
We enjoy making such things
and leave them lying around at conferences.
(Laughter)
Does anyone here use credit cards?
Oh well!
Yes, they are popular and extremely safe.
(Laughter)
New credit cards have been sent
with a letter explaining that it is your new "Secure credit card".
Does anyone already have them?
You know she's safe because it contains a chip, an RFID tag.
You can use them for Taxicabs and at Starbucks,
I brought one,
you just have to touch the reader.
Has anyone ever seen it?
Okay, who has one?
Bring them here.
(Laughter)
There is a price for you.
I just want to show what we found out about it.
I received this credit card by post.
I really need some volunteers.
I need one, two, three, four, five volunteers because the winners
get this amazing stainless steel wallet
that protects you from the problem, you guessed it, I'm going to show.
Bring your credit card and I'll show you.
I want to try it with one of these great new credit cards.
Okay.
We have a conference organizer,
someone who can force people to cooperate?
(Laughter)
It's because you want it yourself, because -
now the demo is going to be really great.
You've never seen this -
(Inaudible question)
What?
They are really cool stainless steel wallets.
Ever seen code on the screen at TED?
Yes, this is quite special.
(Laughter)
Great, I have volunteers.
Who has such a great credit card?
Okay, here we go.
I'm going to communicate your credit card number
to only 350 close friends.
Do you hear the beep?
That means someone is hacking your credit card.
Okay, what do we have now?
Valued customer, card number and expiration date.
It turns out that your safe new credit card is not that safe.
Anyone else wanting to try it while you're here?
Man: Can you install overdraft protection?
PH: Beep, let's see what we have?
We objected and AMEX changed it.
so that the name is no longer visible.
That is progress.
You can see mine when it is shown.
Yes, my name can be seen on it. That's what my mom calls me.
Yours doesn't have it.
Either way, next time you get something in the mail
that says it's safe, send it to me.
(Laughter)
Oh wait, one of these is empty, hold on.
I think it's this, yep, here it goes.
You get the disassembled.
Okay, cool.
(Applause)
I have a few minutes left, I'm going to tell you something.
(Laughter)
Oh shit.
[I'm crazy]
That's my secret message.
It should have been much faster.
Here is the most exciting slide ever shown at TED.
This is the protocol diagram for SSL,
the encryption system in your web browser.
It protects your credit card when you send them to Amazon and so on.
Very exciting, I know, but the point is
that hackers will attack every point in this protocol, right?
I'm going to send two responses when the server expects one.
I'm going to send a zero when he expects a one.
I'm going to send twice as much data as expected.
I'm going to answer twice as long as expected.
Try a lot of things and see where it breaks
and wait to see what falls into my lap.
If I find such a hole, I can look for a vulnerability.
This is a bit more as SSL looks
very boring for hackers.
This little guy kills a million Africans every year.
It is the Anopheles stephensi mosquito, carrier of malaria.
Is this the wrong talk?
(Laughter)
This is a protocol diagram for malaria.
We attack this protocol in our lab
at every possible point.
It has a very complicated life cycle that I will not go into right now,
but it spends some time in humans and some time in mosquitoes.
For that I need hackers.
Because hackers have a mind out to explore,
that is optimized to look for opportunities.
I often illustrate this as follows.
You have a new gadget and show it to your mother.
Maybe she says, "What's this doing?" And you, "Mom, it's a phone."
And she immediately knows exactly what it is for.
But a hacker asks other questions.
"What can I get this thing to do?"
I take out all the screws, take the back off
and break it into many small pieces
and then figure out what I can make with that mess.
That is discovery. We need that in science and technology
to find the possibilities.
In the lab I try to apply that way of thinking
on some of the biggest problems people have.
We are working on malaria at the request of Bill Gates.
That is how we tried to solve malaria.
This is a real 1940s ad.
We eradicated malaria in the US by spraying DDT everywhere.
In the lab, we work hard to understand the problem.
This is a high-speed video, we have a boulder from a video camera
to learn how mosquitoes fly.
You can see that they swim in the air earlier.
We actually have no idea how they fly.
But we have a nice video camera, so we -
(Laughter)
Yes, it costs more than a Ferrari.
In any case, we found a number of ways to get rid of mosquitoes.
We fire them with laser beams.
You get this if you have all kinds of scientists
and put a laser nerd together in a room.
At first people thought it was funny,
but we found out we could build this with regular electronics.
With the CCD of a webcam,
the laser of a Blu-ray burner,
the laser galvo comes from a laser printer.
We do motion detection on a GPU processor
as you find it in a video game system.
All things that follow Moore's law.
So it is not going to be too expensive.
We want these laser systems
around a building or village
and just shoot all the mosquitoes that come at the people.
And we would like to do that for your backyard.
We could also start protecting crops.
Our team is now investigating
what they need to do the same
for the plague that is about two-thirds
of the orange plantations in Florida.
People first laughed at it.
This is a video of our system at work.
We follow the mosquitoes as they fly around.
Those visors come from our computer.
It looks at them, sees them move
and then point a laser at it to measure their wing beat frequency.
That reveals which mosquito it is.
An Anopheles stephensi? A female?
And if so, she'll get a deadly laser shot.
(Laughter)
This works in a lab.
Now we are going to test it in the field.
All this is done in the Intellectual Ventures Lab
in Seattle where I work.
We try some of the most difficult problems
that people have to deal with.
This is the crucial shot.
We just burn off his wing with a UV laser.
He's not coming back.
(Applause)
His wing just evaporated.
They love it. I mean, you know.
Never received a call from PETA or anyone else.
I mean it's the perfect enemy.
There is simply no one who comes to the rescue of mosquitoes.
Sometimes we exaggerate.
Anyway, I'm leaving now.
This is the Intellectual Ventures Lab where I work.
In principle, we use any kind of scientist
and every tool in the world to develop crazy inventions.
Thanks.
(Applause)